Electronics comprises the physics, engineering, technology and applications that deal with the emission,
flow and control of electrons in vacuum and matter.This distinguishes it from classical electrical
engineering as it uses active devices to control electron flow by amplification and rectification rather than
just using passive effects such as resistance, capacitance and inductance.
INTRODUCTION TO SIGNAL
Electric signals (in electronics) – different voltages and currents in the electric network called electric “circuit” or
“device”, which can be further described as the process of changes a certain physical quantity or state of a physical
object over certain period of time. They are used for the purpose of visualization, registration and transmission
of messages (information). Signal can be a carrier of different information e.g. electric, magnetic and acoustic
signals and contains the information parameter e.g. amplitude, frequency or pulse width. In electronics, the most
important signals are the changes in electric charge, current, voltage and electromagnetic field. They are used to
analyze the behavior of electronic circuits or to measure the changing electrical values.
What is Time Domain Analysis?
A time domain analysis is an analysis of physical signals, mathematical functions, or time series of economic or
environmental data, in reference to time. Also, in the time domain, the signal or function's value is understood for
all real numbers at various separate instances in the case of discrete-time or the case of continuous-time.
Furthermore, an oscilloscope is a tool commonly used to see real-world signals in the time domain.
Moreover, a time-domain graph can show how a signal changes with time, whereas a frequency-domain graph
will show how much of the signal lies within each given frequency band over a range of frequencies.
In general, when an analysis uses a unit of time, such as seconds or one of its multiples (minutes or hours) as a
unit of measurement, then it is in the time domain. However, whenever an analysis concerns the units like Hertz,
then it is in the frequency domain.
Frequency Domain
In physics, electronics, control systems engineering, and statistics, the frequency domain refers to the analysis
of mathematical functions or signals with respect to frequency, rather than time. Put simply, a time-domain graph
shows how a signal changes over time, whereas a frequency-domain graph shows how much of the signal lies
within each given frequency band over a range of frequencies. A frequency-domain representation can also
include information on the phase shift that must be applied to each sinusoid in order to be able to recombine the
frequency components to recover the original time signal.
A given function or signal can be converted between the time and frequency domains with a pair of
mathematical operators called transforms. An example is the Fourier transform, which converts a time function
into a sum or integral of sine waves of different frequencies, each of which represents a frequency component.
The "spectrum" of frequency components is the frequency-domain representation of the signal. The inverse
Fourier transform converts the frequency-domain function back to the time function. A spectrum analyzer is a
tool commonly used to visualize electronic signals in the frequency domain.
How is Time Domain Analysis Different from Frequency Domain?
Frequency domain is an analysis of signals or mathematical functions, in reference to frequency, instead of time.
As stated earlier, a time-domain graph displays the changes in a signal over a span of time, and frequency domain
displays how much of the signal exists within a given frequency band concerning a range of frequencies. Also, a
5
frequency-domain representation can include information on the phase shift that must be applied to each sinusoid
to be able to recombine the frequency components to recover the original time signal.
Furthermore, you can convert a designated signal or function between the frequency and time domains with a pair
of operators called transforms. Moreover, a perfect example of a transform is the Fourier transform. Which
converts a time function into an integral of sine-waves of various frequencies or sum, each of which symbolizes
a frequency component. The so-called spectrum of frequency components is the frequency-domain depiction of
the signal. However, as the name implies, the inverse Fourier transform converts the frequency-domain function
back to the time function