The construction, characteristics, and models of semiconductor diodes were introduced in Chapter 1. The primary goal of this chapter is to develop a working knowledge of the diode in a variety of configurations using models appropriate for the area
of application. By chapter’s end, the fundamental behavior pattern of diodes in dc and
ac networks should be clearly understood. The concepts learned in this chapter will
have significant carryover in the chapters to follow. For instance, diodes are frequently
employed in the description of the basic construction of transistors and in the analysis of transistor networks in the dc and ac domains.
The content of this chapter will reveal an interesting and very positive side of the
study of a field such as electronic devices and systems—once the basic behavior of
a device is understood, its function and response in an infinite variety of configurations can be determined. The range of applications is endless, yet the characteristics
and models remain the same. The analysis will proceed from one that employs the
actual diode characteristic to one that utilizes the approximate models almost exclusively. It is important that the role and response of various elements of an electronic
system be understood without continually having to resort to lengthy mathematical
procedures. This is usually accomplished through the approximation process, which
can develop into an art itself. Although the results obtained using the actual characteristics may be slightly different from those obtained using a series of approximations, keep in mind that the characteristics obtained from a specification sheet may
in themselves be slightly different from the device in actual use. In other words, the
characteristics of a 1N4001 semiconductor diode may vary from one element to the
next in the same lot. The variation may be slight, but it will often be sufficient to validate the approximations employed in the analysis. Also consider the other elements
of the network: Is the resistor labeled 100  exactly 100 ? Is the applied voltage
exactly 10 V or perhaps 10.08 V? All these tolerances contribute to the general belief that a response determined through an appropriate set of approximations can often be “as accurate” as one that employs the full characteristics. In this book the emphasis is toward developing a working knowledge of a device through the use of
appropriate approximations, thereby avoiding an unnecessary level of mathematical
complexity. Sufficient detail will normally be provided, however, to permit a detailed
mathematical analysis if desired.