2.4 SERIES DIODE CONFIGURATIONS
WITH DC INPUTS
In this section the approximate model is utilized to investigate a number of series
diode configurations with dc inputs. The content will establish a foundation in diode
analysis that will carry over into the sections and chapters to follow. The procedure
described can, in fact, be applied to networks with any number of diodes in a variety
of configurations.
For each configuration the state of each diode must first be determined. Which
diodes are “on” and which are “off”? Once determined, the appropriate equivalent as
defined in Section 2.3 can be substituted and the remaining parameters of the network determined.
In general, a diode is in the “on” state if the current established by the
applied sources is such that its direction matches that of the arrow in the
diode symbol, and VD   0.7 V for silicon and VD   0.3 V for germanium.
For each configuration, mentally replace the diodes with resistive elements and
note the resulting current direction as established by the applied voltages (“pressure”).
If the resulting direction is a “match” with the arrow in the diode symbol, conduction through the diode will occur and the device is in the “on” state. The description
above is, of course, contingent on the supply having a voltage greater than the “turnon” voltage (VT) of each diode.
If a diode is in the “on” state, one can either place a 0.7-V drop across the
element, or the network can be redrawn with the VT equivalent circuit as defined in
Table 2.1. In time the preference will probably simply be to include the 0.7-V drop across
each “on” diode and draw a line through each diode in the “off” or open state. Initially, however, the substitution method will be utilized to ensure that the proper voltage and current levels are determined.
The series circuit of Fig. 2.10 described in some detail in Section 2.2 will be used
to demonstrate the approach described in the paragraphs above. The state of the diode
is first determined by mentally replacing the diode with a resistive element as shown
in Fig. 2.11. The resulting direction of I is a match with the arrow in the diode symbol, and since E  VT the diode is in the “on” state. The network is then redrawn as
shown in Fig. 2.12 with the appropriate equivalent model for the forward-biased silicon diode. Note for future reference that the polarity of VD is the same as would result if in fact the diode were a resistive element. The resulting voltage and current
levels are the following:
V